We have now reached the culmination
of TypeScript fundamentals v3,
and that is generics.
So generics are a way of creating
types that are expressed in
terms of other types.
And the benefit of doing
this is it allows for
a greater opportunity to
reuse code across your app.
And that'll become clear as we
get deeper into this topic.
Because this is an abstract concept,
I want to begin by leading us up
to why we should care about this?
What's the scenario we can see where
we're missing something from TypeScript?
And that will help us understand why
should we even care about this thing?
So let's go back to an example that
we've used before in this course, and
that is a dictionary, right?
We have this dictionary called phones and
under an arbitrary key,
we can store a three part phone number.
And we can see that all of these
properties look very, very similar.
So sometimes it's convenient to
organize our data in dictionaries and
sometimes it's convenient
to organize data in arrays.
So it would be nice if we had
some sort of utility that let us
transform data that was in one
type of collection into the other.
So let's deal with this as our
starting point for our data.
It's a object that has three parts for
a phone number.
It's kind of customerId now, so
it's just a ten digit phone number.
But we've got a customerId, areaCode,
phone number, and we have a list of them.
What we want in the end is
something that looks like this,
where effectively we have this key
value data structure, a dictionary,
where each member of what was in the
array, it's stored under a particular key.
In this case, it's the customerId.
Now we're gonna start by implementing
a very specific solution that works for
exactly this use case.
And then as a second step, we're gonna see
if we can make it more generalized and
kinda get a feel for
where we're at at that point.
So we wanna go from this to this.
So we will need one thing along the way
and that's the the mechanism for
producing a key that we use for
storage of each object on the dictionary.
And in order to make sure that we're
on our way to a generalized solution,
we're going to want the color of
this function to provide us with
the mechanism of obtaining that key.
So part of what we're gonna ask for
here is a little callback function,
sort of a higher order function
approach to solving this problem.
So our function signature
could look like this,
we've got this PhoneInfo type and
then a function
that we can use to transform
a list of these PhoneInfo
things to a dictionary
of the PhoneInfo things.
Here's that little id callback
that I mentioned earlier,
where in addition to being provided
the list, we're also provided
with this function that can be used
given a PhoneInfo, obtain a string.
And we will use that string as our key.
This is throwing an error right now for
obvious reasons like we're
not returning anything.
We said we'd return a dictionary,
currently we're not returning anything
at all, quite understandable.
So implementing the function
itself is not really the point of
what we're talking about here,
it is pretty simple.
We can start by defining the dictionary
and we'll start with it empty.
We'll iterate through each
member of the list will
generate a key using
the function that were provided.
And then we'll use that key to store that
member of the array in the dictionary and
then ultimately at the end,
we return the dictionary.
So that's the whole algorithm, loop,
find the key, shove it on the dictionary,
and then return the dictionary at the end,
not too bad.
So we can actually run this in
the TypeScript playground and
convince ourselves that this works.
So the way you do that
is you go click on Logs.
As in Console Logs, that's where
this will show up, and then hit Run.
So here we go, this is our input.
And then down here is where
we're doing the log and
we're seeing each of these objects
stored in the dictionary under a key.
So we can see that it appears to work,
great.
So let's attempt to make this
a little bit more general.
And the approach we're gonna take is find
every reference to this PhoneInfo type and
let's replace it with the most
general type that we have, an any.
So we used to have an array of PhoneInfos
here, so it's an array of any.
Our idGen callback used to take
a PhoneInfo as an argument,
now it takes in any.
And then we used to return
a dictionary of PhoneInfos, but
we return a dictionary of any's now.
Nothing else in this function has changed,
none of this has changed,
it's all the same.
So really it's just about the any's
that appeared in the function signature.
Now if we wanna try this out, we can,
now I'm going to comment this
last line out because it's really
just to illustrate a point.
But if we run this, go to Logs and
Run, we can see that now
we're able to use this on
a different type of array, right?
These are not PhoneInfo objects, these are
just objects that have a name property.
And I have my little callback that
describes what am I using as my key?
How am I storing these on the dictionary?
So we obviously get the correct
result at runtime, but
the problem is we've lost all
of our useful type information.
Everything that comes out is in any, so
in making this more flexible,
we've had to relax our types,
so much,
that we don't get any of that validation.
That is basically the point of TypeScript,
right?
In relaxing this so
that it can handle anything,
we're back to JavaScript level
type safety, which is not much.
That's the problem,
we need a mechanism of allowing
flexibility without giving up
all of our type information and
generics provide the ability to do that.
So the first thing we'll need to
do is define a type parameter.
You can think of type parameters
as arguments for types.
They're kind of function arguments,
but there are four types.
Just like functions can
return different values given
different arguments passed to them,
type parameters can influence
what generic types end up being.
So we're gonna go ahead and
do a couple things here.
This is gonna be our new
function signature, so
there are some things that
have been added here.
And we're gonna talk about exactly what
each of those pieces of syntax mean,
just so we slow way down and
we understand what's going on.
So first,
we have this angle bracket t thing to
the right of the name of the function,
right?
It's this thing right here,
so what is this,
it is the type parameter list
with one type parameter in it.
You can think of it like the equivalent
to the round parentheses for
a function argument list.
So if we had many type parameters here,
it might be t,x,y, something like that.
The convention is like a common
convention you will see but
it's not a limitation by any means.
It's to use capital letters,
often the letter T is used.
And this you can trace that back to
the use of a similar feature set in C++,
where they would call
these template classes.
It's the same thing, you could remember
T for type or T for template, so
that's what this is, it basically
says there exists a type parameter t.
The second thing, right instead of
receiving a list of PhoneInfos or
an array of PhoneInfos,
we're receiving a list of T's.
So what's that all about?
Well, what's going to happen
is on a per invocation basis,
you might end up with a different type T.
So if we were passing this, a list
of PhoneInfos, T would be PhoneInfo.
If we were to pass it a list of strings,
T would be string.
So what we're gonna see is that
every time we use this function,
TypeScript's going to use
the type of the array.
This first thing that
the function receives,
it'll use that to figure
out what T should be.
So it's gonna infer what
T is on a per usage
basis depending on the array we pass in.
This is a much simpler example that kind
of boil things down to the absolute most
small atom that we can talk about here.
We could define a function here that takes
an argument and just wraps it in an array,
like it's a tupple of length 1.
And whatever we give it,
it's gonna return a Tupple
of 1 with that thing in it,
that's all it's doing.
So let's look at the return
types of this function.
Up here you can see it's
like wrapInArray<T>, right,
arg is T, and it returns this.
While we pass it a number,
look, the T turned to a number.
We received an argument of type number,
we return a tupple with a number in it.
Here's the date, here's the date,
and here's the date.
I could do a RegExp,
we could do whatever we want.
This type, it's almost like
it's morphing to accommodate
our needs depending on
the argument we pass to it.
So it's like auto
detecting what T should be,
and returning the right
thing to us as a result.
So let's go back to our example again,
our listToDict example.
So we talked about this
type parameter list, right?
Just saying T exists,
we talked about how we're saying,
I'm going to receive a list of arguments.
I'm gonna receive an argument and
it's defined in terms of T,
that's gonna help TypeScript
infer what we should get for T.
So now we have this line here,
that's our id
generating callback and
we're using T here as well.
So this means a couple of things.
First, that we're going to get the use
of type checking within this callback.
And the second is we're going
to effectively ensure that
the type of thing or
callback is designed to work with is the
same thing that the array has within it.
So if we had something like this,
here's our array,
it's an array of dates,
this arg is a date,
we'd better be treating it as a date.
We can't give it a function that's
designed to generate ideas for
anything else,
its gotta be happy with working on dates.
The last thing to look
at is the return type.
So we can see that here,
it's just a dictionary of T's.
And similar to how in our tiny,
tiny example, right,
we had a return type
that looked like this.
And we can see that the type of what comes
out of the function changes depending on
what we pass in.
Similarly down here, we're gonna get
a different kind of dictionary out.
So let's put all of this together and
take a look at our original example.
So all we've done is we've
brought the algorithm back in,
it's a very simple little
looping process here.
And let's look at our tool tips
as we attempt to use this.
So here we're getting a dictionary out and
we're passing in just
objects with a name property.
And look at the dictionary we get out,
it's got an index signature, where
each value that's found in the dictionary,
it's just an object with a name.
Let's look at a different example,
here's our phoneList,
right, a array of customer ids and
phone numbers.
Well, you can see that the type
has sort of adapted here.
It's inferred what T should be, and
it's gonna return the right
kind of dictionary.
So now, unlike our example where we
used any, and where we lost all type
information as we pass through this
function, we tried to make it flexible
enough that it would work for
any list to dictionary transformation.
Unlike the any based approach,
we're actually maintaining
all of our type information.
It kind of passes straight through.
So we can run this in
the TypeScript playground and
we can convince ourselves that it works.
So up here, this is our first dictionary,
that is this right here and
then down here this is
our second dictionary.
What we're doing here, I'm just gonna
look back at the function signature here.
What we're doing here is we're
saying on a per invocation basis,
we will figure out what T is and
for that invocation T serves
as a way of defining
a relationship between things.
Meaning, the dictionary I will give you
is related to the list you gave me.
The callback you'd better give me must
be related in terms of type
to what's in your list.
It serves as sort of a linkage
between all of these things and
it allows us to remain flexible without
basically widening our type and
making it so general, so
nonspecific that we lose our safety.